---
layout: post
tag: "R"
title: My experience with R
---

I started learning the R programming language back in college (circa 2008), so I've been using the language off and on over the past 15 years. It started with Gregg Hartvigsen's class on biostatistics, where we learned how to do linear regressions and chi-squared analyses. When I got to graduate school, I used the R language to perform t-tests and ANVOVA for statistical analyses after experiments. And finally outside of academia, I used R to help build models for businesses and expedite
analyses.

As many others have written, I think that the language is well suited for folks looking for something beyond Microsoft's Excel but isn't a big leap into more general purpose languages like Python. The concept of the data frame is built into R and is familiar for Excel users, whereas structures like dictionaries, lists, and tuples may not come intuitively to non-Excel users. Built-in datasets and import functionality quickly gets users going with analysis. The tidyverse is basically a requirement for anyone that does material data analysis.

Another aspect that I've recently come across is R's Shiny package, which allows users to quickly build interactive websites using R. After working with Power BI and running up against its limitations, I've found Shiny to be an easy alternative for users. While Shiny does have its own limitations (single-threaded processes can be a bear with computationally heavy workloads), the software makes it easy for non-traditional computer science folks to spin up useful websites for users. 


From a performance perspective, R has its work cut out for it. In my own experiments, it is much slower than Python and the budding Julia language. While this probably isn't terrible for folks dealing with smaller datasets, or for folks that don't mind digging into the promises and future packages, it does strike me as a limitation that will likely become more apparent as users build on their successes and use the software more and more.
